README.md, before:

Color LCD Shield
================

[![Color LCD Shield](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/images/products/9/3/6/3/09363-01b_i_ma.jpg)  
*Color LCD Shield (LCD-09363)*](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9363)

The Color LCD Shield interfaces your Arduino with a knock-off [132x132 Nokia 6100 LCD](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/569). The LCD is available with one of two controlling drivers - a [Philips PCF8833](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/datasheets/LCD/Color/PCF8833_1.pdf) or an Epson [S1D15G10](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/datasheets/LCD/Color/S1D15G10D08BE_TM_MF1493_03.pdf).

A really great resource for working with both the Epson and Philips controllers is Jim Lynch's [Display Driver tutorial](http://www.sparkfun.com/tutorial/Nokia%206100%20LCD%20Display%20Driver.pdf). Much of this example code stems from that document.

Repository Contents
-------------------

* **/hardware** - Hardware design files for the Color LCD Shield PCB. These files were designed in Eagle CAD.
* **/firmware** - Example firmware for the Color LCD Shield.

License Information
----------------

The hardware and example firmware are released under [Creative Commons Share-alike 3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).

Commit message:

Updating README to reflect product retirement.

README.md, after:

Color LCD Shield
================

***NOTE:*** *This product has been retired from our catalog. If you are looking for more up-to-date info, please check out the [forum](https://forum.sparkfun.com/), [comments here on GitHub](https://github.com/sparkfun/ColorLCDShield/issues), or [IRC channel](https://www.sparkfun.com/news/263) to see how other users are still hacking and improving on this product.*

[![Color LCD Shield](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/images/products/9/3/6/3/09363-01b_i_ma.jpg)  
*Color LCD Shield (LCD-09363)*](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9363)

The Color LCD Shield interfaces your Arduino with a knock-off [132x132 Nokia 6100 LCD](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/569). The LCD is available with one of two controlling drivers - a [Philips PCF8833](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/datasheets/LCD/Color/PCF8833_1.pdf) or an Epson [S1D15G10](https://dlnmh9ip6v2uc.cloudfront.net/datasheets/LCD/Color/S1D15G10D08BE_TM_MF1493_03.pdf).

A really great resource for working with both the Epson and Philips controllers is Jim Lynch's [Display Driver tutorial](http://www.sparkfun.com/tutorial/Nokia%206100%20LCD%20Display%20Driver.pdf). Much of this example code stems from that document.

Repository Contents
-------------------

* **/hardware** - Hardware design files for the Color LCD Shield PCB. These files were designed in Eagle CAD.
* **/firmware** - Example firmware for the Color LCD Shield.

License Information
----------------

The hardware and example firmware are released under [Creative Commons Share-alike 3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).
